---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
date: 2021-04-06
labels:
  - E4
  - Coding Progress
---

<h1>My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:</h1>
Compared to my skills before I took this class, my coding skills have greatly improved in many different ways. I now know how to utilize more complex types of coding besides just the entry level HTML coding. For example, I only knew the basic <'h1'> but now, as of this far in class, I learned how to code loops and do GET requests. I also learned better coding habits like commenting my codes, constantly saving my work, copying codes when needed to for convenience.
  
<h1>I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:</h1>
To improve my programming skills, I need to work on remembering the different codes. I find myself getting stuck a lot because I tend to forget when to use what code. I also should re-read the assigned readings or take notes when watching screencasts in order to reinforce what I read or watch into my brain. Doing so would help me improve not just with coding but also my confidence in myself. Especially when we do the pick on in class.
  
<h1>I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.</h1>
Technically, I could do WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first but I just don't know it at the time I first try to attempt to. When I start off, I do it well and correctly. But as soon as things get a little difficult, I begin to doubt myself and question if what I think I should do is correct. So rather than taking a chance and trusting myself, I refer to the screencast and 9 times out of 10, what I thought I should do was what was supposed to be done.

<h1>The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.</h1>
The labs definitely help me learn. In fact, the labs help tremendously when I do the WODs. What we do in labs almost always needs to be done in the WODs. However, I can't complete them with confidence because there might be an exercise we have to do that I sometimes do not understand and I would need to rewatch the recorded lecture to fully grasp how and why we did what we did. I just need to ask more questions in class to avoid that confusion.

<h1>I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).</h1>
For the most part, I do feel ready to work on the next stage of complexity. My Assignment 1 works and I am somewhat satisfied with how it looks. But I am definitely a bit intimidated by what's next because althought I completed it, it was a bit of a struggle to do Assignment 1. I just need to ensure that I prepare myself correctly by actually fully understanding all the material and not procrastinating.

<h1>I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:</h1>
Some ways that I think the class can be improved is to manage our class time more efficiently. We do tend to fall behind when doing labs in class which affects our capability to do other assignments on our own. For instance, Lab 13 was needed to do Assignment 1 but we did not get to it until after it was due.

<h1>These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:</h1>
The recorded lectures really help me with my learning. It allows me to go back and re-watch our class so I can help myself in the parts that I missed during the actual class time which essentially ensures that I don't fall behind on the labs. The screencast solutions for WODs also really help me with my learning. Having them gives me the reassurance that what I am doing is correct before turning in the work. Either the screencast or a picture of what the end result should look like helps significantly.
